[Music]
so you grab your coffee and get on the
morning train to find yourself at your
office desk an hour later this is the
everyday routine for millions of people
across the world but there are countries
where this simply isn't possible
they have no trains Iceland if you ever
decide to visit the Land of Fire and Ice
geysers volcanoes elves and horses with
cute bangs really don't expect to travel
across the island in a train there's no
public railway network in the country in
fact there were some attempts to build
railways here in the early 1900s to
connect Reykjavik the capital city to
Selfoss the largest city in south
iceland but they decided roads would be
sufficient the more successful project
was the railway within the city of
Reykjavik where two locomotives
transported rocks from the quarry to the
harbour you can now see them at local
museums there was also a functioning
farm railway at a dairy farm on the
outskirts of Reykjavik in the 1930s the
car was used to carry goods around the
property but was abandoned some years
later so why doesn't Iceland have
railroads there are three reasons the
harsh climate the small population and
their love of cars which are the number
one means of transportation in the
country since there are more and more
tourists coming to Iceland the road from
the airport is getting busier and busier
so an idea has been introduced to build
a high-speed Lava Express connecting
Keflavik International Airport and
Reykjavik it's still unclear if it'll
get enough funding though butai
halfway across the world is the country
that measures its gross national
happiness and whose temperatures are
much higher than in Iceland still
there's no railway network taking time
this time it all boils down to money if
you look at a map of Bhutan you'll see
mostly mountains and hills building
railways here would mean digging tunnels
and constructing high bridges that's one
super expensive project plus the nearly
1 million people living in the country
aren't evenly spread out and most of
them are constantly migrating so the
money invested in the construction and
maintenance of the railroad wouldn't pay
off just like in Iceland there are plans
to build a railway network connecting
southern Bhutan to India but funding is
still an open question
Andorra Andorra is a microstate located
in the Pyrenees Mountains between France
and Spain you'll have to arrive at one
of the local ski resorts with all your
gear by car or bus from neighboring
countries but don't let micro trick you
into thinking it's small sizes to blame
for its lack of railways even Vatican
City the smallest country in the world
has a railway which is less than a mile
long in fact Andorra and Bhutan have one
thing in common
mountainous terrain that's why there
aren't and never have been
railways here in 2004 there was a plan
to build an elevated cable metro system
called metro area but it was never
brought to life Libya Libya is one of
the countries on the list that used to
have a railway network but is now train
free the first 250 miles of railways
were built here by the Kingdom of Italy
back in the early 1900s by 1965 the
lines had been taken to pieces at the
moment a new railway line is being
constructed to connect the largest
cities of Raja
and Tripoli but the process is slow
because of funding issues ah money again
Cypress if you ever visit Cyprus make
sure to stop by at the Railway Museum in
the village of Everett so you'll see
models of the station's wagons photos
and other things that prove railways did
exist here but are now just history
fun fact future Prime Minister Winston
Churchill himself visited Cyprus and
wrote that railway transport should be
developed on the island in 1915 the
official opening ceremony of the 75 mile
long track took place in Everett south
but there was basically no cargo traffic
so the line was shut down just a few
years later the same happened to other
railway lines roads took over and train
stations were converted into police
stations and other municipal buildings
Malta here's another island state in the
Mediterranean and another great vacation
spot where you can take a boat trip
right a double-decker bus or rent-a-car
but won't find any trains there used to
be one railway line here from Valletta
to mdina but it wasn't economically
viable and shut down in 1931 you can't
find some remnants of it as you explore
the island now public buses in Malta are
pretty crowded and the roads are busy so
a railway probably wouldn't hurt the
only thing is that building trains above
ground would create too much noise
pollution and Malta is densely populated
with one town flowing into the other
building underground would be too
expensive and not eco-friendly I don't
know about you but all those beautiful
islands make me want to go on vacation
just wondering do you prefer to stay
somewhere closer to home or do you mind
flying long hours to see some cool
places far away let me know down in the
comments below
Kuwait unlike many countries on the list
we're building a railway system would be
simply too expensive
Kuwait doesn't seem to have a money
problem the nation is super rich in oil
and maybe it's that abundance that made
cars so popular here
they have never been and aren't
currently any railways here but there
are plans to build a 1200 mile golf
railway to connect Kawai to Oman and a
Metropolitan rapid transit system to
help unload the busy streets Suriname
one of the smallest countries in South
America Suriname has an interesting
history when it comes to railways during
the gold rush a lot of people came here
in search of easy money so at the
beginning of the 20th century a
singletrack meter gauge rail line called
la a railway was supposed to be built to
make the Gold Fields more reachable when
it turned out that they weren't as rich
in gold as people were hoping they
stopped the construction of the line
there are now plans to build a new line
but they still haven't started there are
more countries around the world where
you won't be able to catch a train
Guinea Bissau Rwanda Somalia the
polynesian state of Tonga and East Timor
in Southeast Asia just to name a few in
most cases railway construction is just
too expensive at the moment and most
likely wouldn't be profitable even if it
were built well if you love trains and
can't imagine living in a place without
them here's a treat for you these
countries have the largest rail networks
in the world the US has the longest
total amount of rails about 150,000
miles of tracks about 80% are freight
lines and a lot of the railroads are
operated by private companies the
National passenger network Amtrak has
roots to over 500 destinations in 46
states China is number 2 in the world
when it comes to railroad tracks
it has over 80,000 miles trains are the
most popular and important means of
transportation in the country in 2018
alone around 3 billion passengers and
about as many tons of freight travel by
trains that are operated by the
state-owned China railway corporation
Russia the world's largest country comes
in third in railroad length and its
tracks went for over 50,000 miles
Russian Railways is the monopolist that
carries around 1 billion passengers and
tons of freight per year 12 principal
lines connect Europe to Asia and the Far
East the most famous of them is the
trans-siberian railway which connects
Moscow to Vladivostok and is 5,700 miles
long
that's one epic journey hey hope all
this train talk is keeping you on the
right track
I couldn't help myself so if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share with a friend and here
are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]